welcome to BBC News we're bringing this
live to you from Southern Israel just
close to the Gaza Strip we're about 3
kmers a mile or so away from Gaza where
the Israeli military offensive is
intensifying there has been a very
intense night again of uh Israeli
shelling and Israeli air strikes in Gaza
and focusing on Gaza City where Israel's
defense minister now says that the
Israeli troops are operating in the
heart of Gaza City which the minister
claims is the heart of
terrorism the area is one of the most
densely populated parts of the territory
and has frequently been hit by the
Israeli military in the last month it
says it is targeting Hamas which Israel
along with many other countries
considers to be a terrorist
organization in this bulletin we will
bring you the developments from right
across this region from here in Israel
from inside Gaza and from Lebanon as
well but we'll start this hour with the
latest developments from Middle East
correspondent your land
now flares hanging in gaza's night sky
are ominous warnings of incoming Israeli
fire but increasingly the Israeli Prime
Ministers being pressed for a pause in
fighting I did ask you for p yest
waiting this is a key moment Israeli
troops are now said to be in the heart
of Gaza City closing in on this
stronghold of Hamas ministers say
the destruction in Gaza is already
immense with entire neighborhoods
flattened and the civilian death toll is
rapidly mounting the World Health
Organization says an average of 160
children are killed here every day
nothing justifies the horror being
endured by the civilians in
Gaza people in Gaza are dying in their
thousands and those alive are suffering
from trauma disease lack of food and
water the level of death and suffering
is hard to
Fathom dozens were reportedly killed by
Israeli air strikes yesterday in the
southern gazen towns of hunis RAF
andal in hunis Dr aad Shakura at Nasa
hospital was on duty in the emergency
room when he was told that his two
children aged five and seven his mother
his brothers their wives and their
children were killed in a
strike what did these children do wrong
what crime did they commit to deserve
tons of bombs on their heads tons of
explosives on their
heads Israel says that it does what it
can to avoid civilian deaths in Gaza and
that it's acting to eliminate Hamas it
says it's destroying dozens of tunnel
shafts used by its
Fighters the Israeli Prime Minister
continues to reject international calls
for a ceasefire but now says he'll
consider tactical little pauses in
hostilities he added that Israel would
have overall security responsibility
indefinitely after the war's
over yesterday marked exactly one month
since the deadliest day in Israel's
history vigils took place for those
killed in Hames surprise crossborder
attacks and some 240 women men and
children
still being held
hostage I'm waiting and demanding they
do whatever it takes to bring everyone
home safely this is the time to do
things that have not been done before to
ensure their safe
return there's huge pain and anguish on
both sides in this war and there are
many more difficult days ahead yoland
Nell BBC News
Jerusalem
well it's been a very busy morning of
course uh on in this military offensive
that is now more than one month old
let's take a look at some of the uh most
recent developments President Biden said
he had asked the Israeli Prime Minister
uh to Benjamin Netanyahu for a pause in
the fighting potentially for three days
in order for progress on the hostages Mr
Netanyahu has said there will be no
ceasefire but he did raise the
possibility of what he called tactical
little pauses in hostilities
Israel's Minister for strategic Affairs
has said his country has no plans to
govern Gaza but will ensure it remains
demilitarized after the
conflict the number of deaths in Gaza
since the outbreak of hostilities has
risen to over 10,000 according to the
health Ministry there that is controlled
by Hamas with more than
2,700
missing and the World Health
Organization says that among the
casualties 160 children on average are
being killed each day in the war in Gaza
well while the military offensive grinds
on and the humanitarian suffering of
course intensifies foreign ministers
from the G7 the uh group of most
industrialized nations in the world have
been meeting in Japan they have just
issued a joint communic and the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin has
also been speaking in the last few
minutes let's listen to what he's had to
say our first Focus here in Tokyo was
the crisis in the MD East uh yesterday
evening I had an opportunity to brief my
colleagues on my travel through the
region as well as extensive engagements
by President Biden and our entire
National Security
team uh the G7 ministers reaffirmed our
staunch support for Israel's right and
obligation to defend itself and seek to
ensure the attacks of October 7th can
never happen again in accordance with
International humanitarian
law we had in-depth discussions about
the steps that we are taking to address
urgent needs on the ground
we all agreed that humanitarian pauses
would Advance key objectives to protect
Palestinian civilians to increase the
sustained flow of humanitarian
assistance to allow our citizens and
foreign Nationals to exit and to
facilitate the release of
hostages I brief my colleagues about my
conversations with Israeli leaders on
pauses and on concrete steps to minimize
harm to Palestinian civilians in Gaza
and to stop extremist violence in the
West
Bank the US Secretary of State speaking
there while Britain's foreign secretary
James cleverly is also at that meeting
in Tokyo he was asked about his reaction
to the current death toll in Gaza and
whether he believed that Israel's
military response was
proportionate well Israel was uh on the
receiving end of a brutal terrorist
attack and they have every right indeed
a responsibility to the people of Israel
to ensure that they are able to uh
protect themselves and uh we speak about
this military operation uh we get clear
assurances from Israel that they are
acting in accordance with humanitarian
law in order to protect themselves from
Attack what we of course want to see is
ultimately a peaceful two-state uh
solution and we of course always make
clear that any actions that Israel take
should be in pursuit of that ultimate
aim and they should avoid doing anything
which undermines that that will remain
the UK government's
position James cleverly there referring
to the two State solution that many will
believe is even more distant and perhaps
even Dead uh after this military
offensive it's long been uh seen to be
an unachievable goal Let's uh see
whether this current conflict
reinvigorates the idea of a long-term
political settlement of a two-state
solution uh Israel and a Palestinian
State well as well as the G7 ministers
who are there in Tokyo our own sha Khal
our BBC correspondent in Tokyo is there
and she's covering the G7 foreign
ministers meeting and she can join us
live now from Tokyo Shima uh just tell
us about the joint communic that's been
issued and what has come out in the last
few minutes from the G7 foreign
Minister's
meeting well I think the G7 foreign
ministers wanted to present a united
front not only on the Middle East
conflict which overshadowed events which
was at the heart and the center of the
discussions today but also on the
ongoing war in Ukraine and the security
concerns in the Indo Pacific
specifically China economic coion um the
tension between China and Taiwan and of
course um Russia's uh relationship with
pongyang and pyongyang's nuclear Arsenal
Ambitions remember this is a very
different landscape that the foreign
ministers are dealing with than the G7
leaders were dealing with when they met
in Hiroshima in May right now their
ultimate message is yes the conflict in
the Middle East is overshadowing events
but we continue um a message for Russia
really that they say they continue um to
be committed to sanctions on Russia and
for Ukraine's right to defend itself on
the Middle East again I think because
there were background differences in the
ceasefire um
or proposals for a ceasefire by some G7
countries Anthony blinkin was quite
clear that they are now United um on a
no Seas far essentially um still
supporting Israel for no Seas far but
calling for humanitarian poses I was
actually speaking to um the British
foreign secretary um James cleverly um
earlier and he said that essentially
they're pushing for um these
humanitarian pauses to to ensure the
safety of hostages to ensure the safety
um of multinationals um in Gaza and to
get Aid uh to those who needed the most
what we don't have uh mark from the g74
ministers communicate is detail where're
it's really lacking on detail on how
these pauses are going to be um are
going to be conducted when they're going
to be conducted especially as you
reported not very far from where you are
the bombardment continues and the
Israeli strikes continue uh on Gaza I
put it to um James cleverly as well uh
Benjamin netanyahu's remarks about
Israel continuing um or taking security
responsibility in Gaza and how that
could be reinterpreted as um reoccupying
Gaza and he said this again he agreed
with um Anthony blinkin there saying
this is a transition period it is
inevitable that the forces on the ground
will take charge of of security in Gaza
but ultimately what they're calling for
um is Palestinian leadership Palestinian
governance and as Anthony blinkin put it
a few minutes ago a joint Palestinian
governance in Gaza and ultimately in the
West
Bank okay sh in Tokyo thank you very
much indeed watching that G7 meeting in
Tokyo that may also be talking about
what comes next in the future of Gaza
once if and when Hamas is eliminated as
Israel aims now the other part of this
region where there is increasing concern
is Northern Israel and and Lebanon the
Border there between the two countries
where there has been increased uh
crossborder fire in recent days 16 uh
Lebanese uh Rockets were said to have
been fired against Israel in the last
couple of days and Israel responded
militarily with very heavy strikes and
Israel's prime minister has said that
Hezbollah is starting to take part in
this war but they would be making the
mistake of a lifetime if they did so
well uh hezbollah's Deputy leader uh the
deputy secretary of state as he's called
of of of Hezbollah shik Naim km has been
giving a very rare interview to the
BBC's Chief International correspondent
Ola Garin in which he has warned of the
real risk of a wider war in this region
in his words saying that uh the region
cannot bear much more of this Israeli uh
military offensive and AA spoke to him
in Lebanon and she began by asking him
about the likelihood of a wider regional
conflict if the aggression increases and
continues at this space very dangerous
and very serious developments could
occur in the region no one would be able
to stop the repercussions
for sure there is a danger of a wider
Regional War breaking
out how realistic do you think is that
danger now how close is that
danger the danger is
real because Israel is increasing its
aggression against civilians and killing
more women and
children is it possible for this to
continue and increase without bringing
real danger to the region
we know that Hezbollah has weapons that
can reach deep inside Israel but if you
were to use them Israel can respond with
air power and it has promised a response
of unimaginable magnitude and many
Lebanese could die are are you willing
to risk
that it's normal and natural and we are
ready to pay the price
but the question is can Israel pay the
price this is a question for Israel with
the crossborder attacks that you have
been carrying out over the past month
isn't there a risk of dragging Lebanon
into war even
unintentionally a war that Lebanon can't
afford and for which there appears to be
absolutely no support
here it's the right of any lianes to be
afraid of a war this is normal nobody
likes
War but who is responsible for this war
did we start it or did
Israel what's most important is that the
Israelis were the one who started this
aggression against Gaza in this hideous
way with respect Hamas started by
attacking Israel on the 7th of October
and killing more than 1,400 Israelis
most of whom were civilians women and
children so this round of warfare began
with Hamas not with
Israel what should the Palestinians do
to regain their freedom and their
land this operation was
inevitable and it was an act of
resistance and of Defense some would say
that the attacks on October 7th have
been a disaster for the Palestinian
cause because the result has been
massive destruction in Gaza the killing
of thousands of civilians including more
than 4,000 children haven't the attacks
actually
backfired I think what happened was a
great achievement for the Palestinian
resistance now the massacres committed
by Israel are mobilizing the
Palestinians more and more to cling to
their
land and they know there is no solution
accept continued
resistance but you say you consider the
attack a great success but 10,000
Palestinians have been killed since this
attack and who knows how many more will
die who killed the
Palestinians it was the crazy Israelis
would you intervene more militarily
would there be a stronger military
reaction from Hezbollah if Hamas is in
danger of being beaten in
Gaza this is a matter for the future and
what happens in the
battle it's something we do not talk
about in the
media but we have our plans for more
confrontation and resistance depending
on what the circumstances
require or agaran speaking to the deputy
leader of Hezbollah there about the real
risk of a wider Regional War